Networking Architecture Module closes #468 (#469)
bob-crutchley/courseware: topics/networking/modules/architecture/README.md

Originally, all networks were wired, and therefore usually adhered to one of a few specific network topologies due to limitations on physical hardware.

### Bus
```text
    ┌─────┬─────┐
  [Node][Node][Node]
```
Data passing along a network which uses Bus topology would be received quicker by nodes which are close to the node sending that information.

For instance, if a node on one 'end' sends data intended for the node on the other end, it will take a while for that data to pass through all the wires connecting every node together, while nodes in the 'middle' of the network might receive data slightly quicker on average. 

### Ring
```text
  ┌[Node]─[Node]┐
  |             |
  |             |
  |             |
  └[Node]─[Node]┘
```
Ring topology allows for data to circulate through a network in a more even spread than by using a Bus-based system, as each node is connected to two other nodes in the setup.

### Star
```text
  [Node] [Node]
      \   /
      [Hub]
      /   \
  [Node] [Node]
```
Star topology makes use of a 'middle' **Hub**, which serves to re-transmit information sent from one node to another which is intended to receive that information.

> As information is only sent between each node and the Hub, this theoretically stops information from spreading through the network 'in search' of the node it needs to get to.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As information is only sent between each node and the *Hub*, this theoretically stops information from spreading through the network 'in search' of the node it needs to get to.
```

Instead, the Hub takes control of where information is headed, which allows for greater network speed.

### Mesh
```text
  ┌[Node]─[Node]┐
  |    \   /    |
  |     ───     |
  |    /   \    |
  └[Node]─[Node]┘
```
Mesh topology connects every node, where possible, to every other node in the network, without using a Hub to redirect information.

> By connecting every node together, a Hub becomes unnecessary, as data will be received just as quickly at any node irrespective of which node it is sent from.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By connecting every node together, a *Hub* becomes unnecessary, as data will be received just as quickly at any node irrespective of which node it is sent from.
```

However, larger wired networks of this type may suffer due to the greater number of wires required to connect every node to every other node - for instance, if one wire stops working, it may take a significant amount of time to diagnose which wire it is. 

### Tree 
```text
          ┌────────[Router]────────┐
       [Switch]                 [Switch]
    ┌─────┴─────┐            ┌─────┴─────┐
  [Node]      [Node]       [Node]      [Node]
```
You might recognise this setup!

> Tree topology essentially organises several Star-based networks into a hierarchy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Tree topology essentially organises several *Star* topologies based networks into a hierarchy.
```

> By doing this, the 'leaves' of the Tree - the peripheral nodes - are only required to send and receive information to the node directly above it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By doing this, the 'leaves' (nodes) of the Tree are only required to send and receive information to the node directly above it (switch).
```

As a result, rather than have a single Hub node, there are muiltiple switches which share responsibility for re-transmitting data, and a single router to facilitate.

### Hybrid P2P (Peer-to-Peer)
As networks have expanded (and become more wireless) over time, most network architectures employ a **Hybrid** system, most commonly based on Tree architecure.

Wireless technology is Hybrid by design: most Internet-enabled devices are so interconnected that both physical and logical network topology has become less relevant.

When we talk about topology today, we only really refer to it when describing two things:

> 1. Smaller, wired, or home/office network architecture;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. **Smaller, wired, or home/office network architecture**
```

> 2. Larger, integrated, wired networks from the pre-wireless age.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. **Larger, integrated, wired networks from the pre-wireless age**
```

> Generally, wireless networks are interconnected, or **peer-to-peer** (P2P) networks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Generally, wireless networks are interconnected, or **peer-to-peer** (**P2P**) networks.
```

> Every node can exchange data with any other node, with each node acting both as a client (receiving information) and a server (sending information).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Every node can both send and receive data.
```

This eliminates the need for specific routers, hubs, or switches.

## Tasks

> *These tasks are Team Offline Exercises. You will split into teams of 4 to come up with a solution, which you will be expected to present to the rest of the group.*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Try to complete the following tasks:
```

### Office Network Topology

> What types of network architecture are there in the office?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
What types of network architecture are where you currently are?
```

We have spoken about a few different network topologies in this module.

> Think about the ways in which devices in this room might link into a network.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Think about the ways in which devices where you are might link into a network.
```

| **Network bridge** | Aggregates mutliple networks together |
| **Hub** | Connects multiple devices together onto a single network |

(There are others besides this, but they won't be covered in this module.)

## Network Diagrams
Let's look at an example of the architecture and topology involved within a typical network:

```text
          ┌────────[Router]────────┐
      [Switch A]               [Switch B]
    ┌─────┴─────┐            ┌─────┴─────┐
 [Node 1]    [Node 2]     [Node 3]    [Node 4]────[Node 5]
```

Here, we can see:

- the **Router** is in charge of sending and receiving information from the two **Switches**
- the **Switches** send and receive information sent to them from the **Nodes**
- the **Nodes** both send information to, and receive information from, the **Switches**

Let's say that **[Node 4]** is the device that you're using to read this module.

Your device needs to send information to **[Node 1]**.

To do this, there's a lot that would need to happen:

> 1. First, your device at **[Node 4]** sends a *data packet* up the network to **[Switch B]**.

Reviewer: can you remove the full stops at the end of the sentences

### Hybrid P2P (Peer-to-Peer)
As networks have expanded (and become more wireless) over time, most network architectures employ a **Hybrid** system, most commonly based on Tree architecure.

Wireless technology is Hybrid by design: most Internet-enabled devices are so interconnected that both physical and logical network topology has become less relevant.

When we talk about topology today, we only really refer to it when describing two things:
1. **Smaller, wired, or home/office network architecture**
2. **Larger, integrated, wired networks from the pre-wireless age**

Generally, wireless networks are interconnected, or **peer-to-peer (P2P)** networks.

Every node can both send and receive data from every other node.

This eliminates the need for specific routers, hubs, or switches.

## Tasks
Try to complete the following tasks:

### Office Network Topology
What types of network architecture are where you currently are?

We have spoken about a few different network topologies in this module.

Think about the ways in which devices where you are might link into a network.

You will need to consider the following:

>  - Which of each of the network components where you are are connected to a wired network(s);

Reviewer: shouldn't it be question marks at the end of the sentences?

Author: not in this case because they're part of a 'things to consider' list
